
v0.7.0 (January 2016)
---------------------

This is a major release from 0.6. The main new feature is :func:`swarmplot` which implements the beeswarm approach for drawing categorical scatterplots. There are also some performance improvements, bug fixes, and updates for compatibility with new versions of dependencies.

- Added the :func:`swarmplot` function, which draws beeswarm plots. These are categorical scatterplots, similar to those produced by :func:`stripplot`, but position of the points on the categorical axis is chosen to avoid overlapping points. See the :ref:`categorical plot tutorial <categorical_tutorial>` for more information.

- Changed some of the :func:`stripplot` defaults to be closer to :func:`swarmplot`. Points are now somewhat smaller, have no outlines, and are not split by default when using ``hue``. These settings remain customizable through function parameters.

- Added an additional rule when determining category order in categorical plots. Now, when numeric variables are used in a categorical role, the default behavior is to sort the unique levels of the variable (i.e they will be in proper numerical order). This can still be overridden by the appropriate ``{*_}order`` parameter, and variables with a ``category`` datatype will still follow the category order even if the levels are strictly numerical.

- Changed how :func:`stripplot` draws points when using ``hue`` nesting with ``split=False`` so that the different ``hue`` levels are not drawn strictly on top of each other.

- Improve performance for large dendrograms in :func:`clustermap`.

- Added ``font.size`` to the plotting context definition so that the default output from ``plt.text`` will be scaled appropriately.

- Fixed a bug in :func:`clustermap` when ``fastcluster`` is not installed.

- Fixed a bug in the zscore calculation in :func:`clustermap`.

- Fixed a bug in :func:`distplot` where sometimes the default number of bins would not be an integer.

- Fixed a bug in :func:`stripplot` where a legend item would not appear for a ``hue`` level if there were no observations in the first group of points.

- Heatmap colorbars are now rasterized for better performance in vector plots.

- Added workarounds for some matplotlib boxplot issues, such as strange colors of outlier points.

- Added workarounds for an issue where violinplot edges would be missing or have random colors.

- Added a workaround for an issue where only one :func:`heatmap` cell would be annotated on some matplotlib backends.

- Fixed a bug on newer versions of matplotlib where a colormap would be erroneously applied to scatterplots with only three observations.

- Updated seaborn for compatibility with matplotlib 1.5.

- Added compatibility for various IPython (and Jupyter) versions in functions that use widgets.
